So now that I've got my repo cloned,
we can go ahead and
get started by creating some
of our automation, right?
Now, when we think about
the automation that we wanna create,
we really need to consider the resources
that we're gonna be using, right?
when you are working with
TerraForm 99.999% of the time,
you're gonna be working with
these things called providers.
Providers are really what make it so
that you can do things like multicloud.
They're things that make it so
that you can work with other
services in the same automation.
In our case, what we wanna do is we wanna
look up terraform provider tfe, right?
This is the Terraform HashiCorp provider
for Terraform Cloud Enterprise.
Now, one of the things that's
really fun about providers,
which you may not know is people like to
experiment with providers and see, well,
what could I automate, right?
One thing you might not know or
something that might shock you or
find interesting is you can actually
automate your Spotify playlists.
And that's the really great thing about
Terraform is providers are just things
that we make.
As long as it's an API that has
the ability to create things, an API that
has the ability to delete things,
things like that, it's automatable, but
the only thing you have to do is create
a provider that works with them.
And so I would recommend in your homework
going into the TerraForm registry and kind
of looking around and seeing about all
the different providers that they have.
As you can see here, we've got
the AWS Azure, Google Cloud, Kubernetes,
Alibaba, Oracle, right,
all these different things.
And if we go further down, you can even
see things like Nomad, Helm, right?
And so yeah, I highly recommend
taking a look at the providers,
there's a lot of really
cool stuff in there.
Okay, so again, we wanna work with
the Terraform Cloud Provider.
This is gonna be a lot of your
experience with Terraform,
which is just finding which
provider you're working with, and
then figuring out the resources
that you wanna use.
Now, the first resource that we really
wanna find is a project, right?
The project is kind of our first level of
encapsulation in Terraform that makes it
so that all of our workspace
automation can exist in one location.
For example, if I wanted to say, I just
want the automation for service A, right,
and that would be in
the service A project, and
then I could click on that project, right?
But I wanna note something about projects
or even these resources in general before
I go any further, which is resources
are literally individuals, right?
So what that means is, is that you
can have a resource that creates
an organization, but then you also need
another resource that attaches users to
that organization or
other things like that.
And it can become a bit challenging
especially when you're like, I don't know,
am I missing an attachment somewhere or
a policy resource somewhere?
And so another really great way of
creating Terraform automation is actually
leaning on Terraform modules, right?
So we've got providers, but then we've
also got this concept of modules.
And modules are really
community-driven Terraform codes that
has been standardized,
it's been worked on, and
it's also been essentially kinda of battle
tested for the use cases that are created.
So you can see here we've got
aws-modules/iam, VPC, and we even use some
of these modules in this workshop just
because it makes our lives a bit easier.
And again, the goal here is
to create valuable modules,
don't just create a module of a wrapper of
a resource, there's really no value there.
However, I was able to actually
prepare some modules for us.
And so if we actually type in ALT-F4-LLC,
which is my company, and
we go to Project,
we can see that this is the project for
creating Terraform Enterprise resources
essentially, or project resources.
And what's nice about this resource versus
the other one is you'll actually see if we
look in here, you can see that it
provides more than one resource.
It'll take care of the project, but then
it'll also make sure that if it needs to
say have access to a team or
multiple teams, right,
I can just pass that to the resource and
it makes my life a lot easier.
So we're gonna go ahead and
actually get started by using this module,
and we're gonna create a brand
new main.tf file, okay?
So I'm gonna go back to my source,
I'm gonna hit New File,
main.tf, and then I'm gonna edit it.
Now what I wanna do is I
really just wanna copy and
paste that block of code that
exists really here, right?
So if you look here,
you'll see provision resources.
This is really how you can kind of
get started with a module, right?
Now, what I copied was that
part plus a couple others,
which is the values of what I need, right?
So module, project, source, and version,
these are all normally gonna be there
whenever you're using any module.
The module is the actual meta argument
telling Terraform what it is.
Project is the name, and
then your attributes are inside of that.
You might notice that, for example,
in our previous one where you saw aws_vpc,
something like this, you might notice
that it has three arguments, but
then this has two.
What's going on there, right?
Well, the main point is, is one,
we're telling Terraform here
that this is a module, right?
Whereas here we're telling
it it's a resource.
Modules don't have providers,
and that's exactly what this is for,
the provider resource, right?
In this case,
a module just has a name, really.
So this is a little bit of a thing to
think about when you're creating and
using modules is you can't just copy and
paste a module unless you make sure
to rechange the name of that module.
You won't actually be changing what
module it's using because it has a source
definition and a version definition, but
you will need to make sure that project or
whatever, if you wanna have more
than one project has more than one,
it has to be unique, basically So
we're gonna go ahead and
make sure that that is in there, right?
Now with this, we can create a project.
So if we go back to Terraform Cloud
really quickly and we go to Settings.
I'm sorry.
If we go back to Teraform Cloud
really quickly, and
then we click on this little button right
here, these are all of our projects.
Now you actually see I actually have
one here already, so let me just go and
delete that really quick.
All right, cool.
So again, if I open this up, you can
see no workspaces were brand new, and
you do get a default workspace.
So that's nice.
You do get a default workspace,
but we want a workspace for
our actual application.
So, the next thing I wanna do is
I wanna use a workspace resource.
Now again, I could go back to Terraform
Module or TerraForm Provider and look for
everything that's related to a workspace.
Or I could see if maybe this
developer also created one form for
me that I could use and
sure enough, yes, there is.
This is the second part of
modules that's really cool.
You can compose modules to
work with other modules.
So, one of the things I decided to do,
which is why I created these modules was I
didn't like how Terraform Cloud required
you to not just create something, but
then also kind of attach things to things.
It's multiple resources
that have to be done.
My goal is to simply create a project and
a workspace, right?
And so, what I did is I made it so
that the project exported values that
the workspace would then expect, right?
So it makes it easier for you to compose
your infrastructure with your own opinions
by saying these are the actual
attributes I care about,
these are the ones that I don't.
And then this is where the Legos
really kinda come together,
you make them fit well together.
And so this workspace should be able
to work well with our module that we've
already used.
So I'm gonna copy this,
I'm gonna paste it in here, and
I'm just gonna get rid of
this little line right here.
Now, it said Insert Attributes, so
we wanna insert attributes just
like we did with the other module.
So I'm just gonna copy and
paste from the example code.
And then sure enough, there we go.
Now, we have a project and
a workspace, right?
But you'll notice that
if you look at my code,
I have variables here like
var.organization_name, right?
The point of these variables is even
though we're making automation for
ourselves, we don't wanna
necessarily keep unique values or
things of that nature in
the repo if we can avoid it.
We're gonna have things that
are gonna need to be there for sure,
but at least not having it directly
in the automation code is helpful.
And so what we can do with Terraform is we
can create variables that we can actually
pass to the automation to make
this a little bit more dynamic.
And so what we're gonna do now is
we're gonna actually close this out,
we're gonna create a new file, and
we're gonna call this variables.tf, right?
Now in this, we're going to create
a variable for, what was it?
Our organization name, right?
So I'm gonna go over here,
just gonna switch that for you guys so
you can see both, and then I'm going to
paste in my variable block for you guys.
Now again, you're gonna notice this
pattern with Terraform of meta argument,
name or provider name, resource name,
and the name of resource.
And this is what I meant before, right,
when we were talking about Pulumi
versus Terraform versus whatever.
This is why Terraform is so powerful
versus something like Pulumi, it's so
straightforward.
The expectations are so
easy that it really does get
to the point where almost anyone
could start writing automation.
The entry point is so low that it makes it
really easy to do a lot of these things.
So when we're talking about
declaring a variable,
it's literally the word variable,
right, which is nice.
Again, it doesn't make it too confusing.
What we want to do though is we
want to change the default value.
Now you might be like
why are you doing this?
Why don't you just copy and paste it into
the organization name where it is and
call it a day?
We wanna make these dynamic, like I said.
And one of the nice thing about variables
is you can set defaults for variables,
but then you can make them
overvariaiable if you want.
So say, for example, if I wanted to use
this, but then I was like, you know what,
I kind of want to put this
in a different org, right?
I wanna take my whole infrastructure and
I'm gonna put it in
a different organization.
That's challenging, that's a very
daunting and challenging task.
But if you make your
automation dynamic enough,
it can actually make it easier to do that.
And so,
we wanna add our organization name,
which if I click on my Terraform Cloud,
and I look down on the bottom,
you can see my organization name is my
randomly generated word set seat-rhetoric.
So that's my org.
So I'm gonna go into here,
I'm gonna type in seat R-H-E-T-O-R-I-C.
I believe I spelled that correct.
Yes, I did.
Okay, cool.
And then we're gonna right quit and
we're gonna save all of these.
So again, let me go back to main one more
time just to show you what your main
should look like, all right?
You should have a project, and
you should have a workspace, and
then you should have description and name,
and organization name for your project.
And then you should have description,
execution_mode, name, organization_name,
and project_id.
Now there's one thing I wanna do and
show you really quickly before we move
forward because this is a little bit
of a caveat to Terraform Cloud and
the the personal free version of it.
By default, they set a default
execution mode in your account.
This is a difference when you use a paid
account because then there's a little bit
more flexibility.
But we wanna make sure for now, our
default execution mode is set to local,
because everything we're gonna be
starting with at least is gonna be local.
So what we're gonna do is we're
gonna go to Dettings, and
then here where it says Default Execution
Mode, right, we're gonna set it to Local,
and then we're gonna Update organization.
This is important.
Let's make sure everybody does this.
Because this will make sure
that any other repositories or
workspaces we use going forward,
it'll make sure to use local first and
not trying to actually
set itself to remote.
So we set that, and then again, we'll take
one more quick look at our variables.
Looks good.